today we introduce an artist who has
given a whole new dimension to the art
of terracotta Bindu Mata is a renowned
terracotta Julie artist from Bangalore
every piece that is sold at our car or
studio at Yale ANCA is personally
designed and handcrafted by her and the
team from a humble beginning as an
amateur woman entrepreneur MS Bindu Mata
has established herself as one of the
best terracotta jewelry makers in the
country let's get some insight into the
artist and her art form that's when I
thought about this institution called
regional design and technical
development center that's in Victoria
Road in Bangalore so there I went and
myself in the course of four months play
I once training and I joined this
pottery class where we will find five of
us and we were taught from the basics
for everything about working on clique
that was something very new and I happen
to you know enjoy doing something very
tiny you know and this for fun we used
to make some paintings and small beads
it'll be the leftover claim and the
remaining glaze and all that so I
started making jewelry from you know
where I was learning from that Institute
itself I started making jewelry into
jewelry
I don't know for some reason then after
the third mind the fourth month I slowly
discovered what I was really good at so
I thought from there itself I sort of
decided that I needed that I should know
I was doing everything when I started my
studio and when I you know I was so
fascinated with working with clay
because there they they teach you only
the techniques then all your creative in
sticks start working from that stage
itself when you have your own studio
then you start developing lot of
different things so I've done a lot of
murals and masks and statues and
structural things like that then slowly
it was you know and in between also I
was doing jewelry then I got two women
from my husband's factory and then we
started I started training them in in
the making of the speeds and small
pendants and things like that so that
was the beginning of my jewelry making I
have not been trained into jewelry
making
so yeah let's do so I've taken all
instead of taking people who are trained
I found you know the rock you know you
know the villages were close to my place
names to come asking for a job so then I
took them and try to train them so most
of the women whom I trained there they
are with me still till now few of them
have left because they got married and
they have to leave and this most of the
women whom I trained they're still
walking with me
I went for this training in 1994 end of
1994 and then I started in April 1995
I'll be tattooing with my children
making definitely but me when I can when
change a lot of other things but this I
will never stop
they do get their recognition there are
a lot of institutions a common
institution to help them yeah you know
developing techniques to develop their
crafts as well as they have different
exhibitions happening all over India and
even outside the country but still I
think there are there's doesn't need for
more to this craft what I feel right now
the craftsmen are you know they have to
continue with their traditional crafts
and their traditional designs and things
like that but to the modern requirement
and I think they may need some help at
designing poet and you know as it's the
teleporter was in the normal form was in
the form of pots and pans and things
like I mean no artifacts like flowers or
something like that but I gave a new
dimension to tell a quarter by making it
into an ornament similarly they can
there are a lot of different crafts in
India and India is so rich intra you
take embroidery this lot to be learnt
from India so that is there and even
takes time weaving everywhere and even
metal craft there are lots of different
crafts in India which I don't I have not
seen anywhere outside the country so but
still there are lot of scope for people
to take it in to a different level so
they can work with this craftsmen or
they can take a craft as their hobby
which can turn into a business off to a
different level they can take so there
is a lot of opportunity in crafts
especially in India
I have to say I've got a national award
in 1997 and this is given to the best
craft person in the country so every
year it is you know they select from the
different participants who compete for
this and this is the best thing what
government can do to make a craft
popular as well as the traffickers so
this is a good recognition which which
the crafts person gasket and people to
know about that particular person and
you know take it out from that play is
prepared and rested for a while the clay
is then rolled and cut out into the
desired size they are shaped into round
or tubular beads they are then given a
design using sculpting tools the
pendants are made out of terracotta slab
they are dried and fired in the kiln and
used for assembly of children finally
the ax painted using suitable colors